# State

---

The State value can change duringthe lifecycle of the compoentn. The State is initialized using the `useState` hook. <br/>

The example below creates state variable called firstName and function setFirsName is used to update its value. The `useState` hook takes one argument that is initial value of the defined state.

```javascript
const [firstname, setFirstName] = React.useState('John');
```

You can also import the useState hook andthen you don't need to type `React` keyword before the `useState`.

```javascript
import React, { useState } from 'react';

function MyComponent() {
	const [firstName, setFirstName] = useState('John');

	//...continue
}
```

State is always changed by using the method that you defined in your useState hooks. In the previous example the method is `setFirstName` and the following code shows how you can update the state value. You call the method and pass a new value as an argument.

```javascript
setFirstName('Jim');
```

The value of the state can be accessed by using the name of state like hsow in the code below.

```javascript
import React, { useState } from 'react';

function MyComponent() {
	const [firstName, setFirstName] = useState('John');

	return <div>Hello {firstName}</div>;
}
```

**Note!** Never update state directly like `firstName = Jim`. In this case, React doesn't know that the state has been updated and the browser wont'e be re-rendered. <br/>

You can have multiple states by adding multiple `useState` hooks like in the follwing code. You can change yhe calue of firstName by using `setFirstName` method and message by using `setMessage` method.

```javascript
import React, { useState } from 'react';

function MyComponent() {
	const [firstName, setFirstName] = useState('John');
	const [message, setMessage] = useState('Hello');

	return (
		<div>
			{message} {firstName}
		</div>
	);
}
```

In some cases, it is better to use object in the state, when the date belongs together. For example, if w ehave a state that presents some persona data like first name, lastname, and age, we can create one state that is person object.

```javascript
const [person, setPerson] = useState({ firstName: '', lastname, age: 0 });
```

You can now access atte calues by using name and attribute of the state object like `person.firstName` or `person.age`. <br/>

If you have to update all values you use `setPerson` method and set values to each attribute like in the example below.

```javascript
setPerson({ firstName: 'Jim', lastName: 'Smith', age: 30 });
```

If youhave to update only one of the valuesm you can use so called spread notation (...). In this case, you first type the state name with three dots (...person) and after that you define update attribute and a new value. In the following example, we update only the age attribut. All other values of the object are not updated.

```javascript
setPerson(...person, age: 25)
```
